what are the issues you faced and resolved during your sonar, maven pipleline in jenkins ?


What is the use of pipeline you guys are using in your project ?
Pipeline script is what why needed?
Pipeline script is another way of Job configuration with the help of code 
advantanges: 
            1) we can devide the job into different stages(build/test/Depoly) and each part can run on each agent 
            2) parrallel execution of stages are easy configure so that we can save time
            3) Each stage can execute with different version of JDK/MVN Versions
            4) If any stage is faild we can restart the state alone instead of doing from bengining
            5) We can visuvalize the stage in jenkins dashboard
            6) Build can hold for user input (approvels..like that)
            7) we can do the Version control of code , if the code fails we can easily revert the old stage 
            8) Pause, and restart the Build
            9) In multibranch pipeline scripts will automatically creates in sub-branches   
what are the different types of pipeline script? and difference between them?
Type:
=====
1)Declarative 2) Pipeline 
* Difference between Declarative and pipeline:
    Declarative pipline is recent addition to the jenkins
    Declarative is very easy when compared with Scripted 
    Declarative allways starts with "pipeline" whereas 
    scripted pipeline starts with the keyword called "node"

AGENT  --> SRAGES  --> STAGE  -->  STEPS 


Variables:
===========
1) pre defined 
https://<ipaddress>:8080/env-vars.html --> we can get the predefined varaibles 

2) user defined 





what are the lifecycles of maven in pipeline?
what is pom.xml in maven ?
what is purpose of maven command and dependencies  ?
what is the location maven file saving in the server ?
what is the purpose of  # maven clean deploy?
why we use for validate in maven ?


Jenkins:

1) In jenkins why we are using global tool ?
2) In jenkin what is CICD ?
3) What is Artifactory ?
4) what is the purpose of master and slave concept?
5) In jenkins did you write any script to deploy any jobs,any shell script or python ?
6) In jenkins my integaration will happening automatically what are the configuration you will do from jenkins side ?
7) what are the activity you worked on github?

Docker:
1) what is docker?
2) what is docker container?
3) what is docker image?
4) what is docker file?
5) what is dockr engine?
6) i want to login to the running container what is the command?
7) how to check the container logs?
8) my container is not reponding troubleshoot or what is the reasons?
9) what is the difference RUN AND CMD in Dockerfile?
10) i have the running container i want to take the image?
11) i need to delete the container what is the command ?


kubernetes:
1) what is the purpose of kubernetes?
2) three tyes of services in k8s?
3) why we use cluster IP ?
4) what is Nodeport in k8s?
5) what is kubeproxy?
6) what is the use of kubectl  ?
7) what is kubelet?
8) what is pod ?
9) what is etcd?
10) what are the feature of kuberentes?
11) What is API server?
12) what is horizantal pod auto scaller ?
13) What is secret?
14) what is controlmanager?
15) what are the componentes of kubernetes?
16) what is the use of headless service ?
17) what is scheduler ?
18) what are the ports running of the master?
19) what the namespace contians ?
20) what is deployment?
21) what is ingress?
22) What is nodeaffinity?
23) What is readiness and liveness probe?
24) what is cluster role binding?
25) In kubernetes i want to login to the container what is the  k8s command ?
26) what is the command to check the pod status?
27) what is the command to check the logs in k8s?
28) what is the use of describe command in k8s?
29) what is taint and tollerence ?















